# Data_Wharehouse

# Table of Content

### Project Datasets
Datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each that woudl be work with:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset will be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Introduction

As a data engineer, the task is to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to. Will be able to test the database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare the results with their expected results.
building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to

# Executive Summmary

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. The data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. The task is to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to.


# Create Table Schemas

- Designing of schemas for fact and dimension tables
- Writing of  SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
- Completeing the logic in create_tables.py and connect to the database and create these tables
- Writeing SQL DROP statements to drop tables in the beginning of create_tables.py if the tables already exist. 
- Launch the redshift cluster and createing of an IAM role that has read access to S3.
- Adding of redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.

# Testing of AWS Redshift

- Testing by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in the redshift database. Useing of Query Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.
Build ETL Pipeline
- Implementing of the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
- Implementing the logic in etl.py and load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
- Testing by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on  Redshift database and compare the results with the expected results.
-Delete your redshift cluster when finished due unwanted accumulating of cost.


